<h1>COVIDGI Project Repository</h1>

This repository includes the files under development in the COVIDGI project.

<p align="justify">How can decision-making on coronavirus benefit from more agile and precise information through authoritative, open, and VGI-sourced spatial behavioral data? This project presents a novel information management toolbox that integrates timely and fine-scale data to include spatial behavior. This framework focuses on the topics of vulnerability, impact, and conflict considering the social connections, inequalities across space and the dynamics of exposure and resilience to the pandemic across time. To develop this research, the project will combine readily available data sources (e.g., demographics, open data) to volunteered geographic information and qualitative research to set up a replicable toolbox. This toolbox decreases uncertainty on the decision making of pandemic response and will support social spatial behavior modeling using agent-based techniques. Ultimately, this research aims to fill the gaps in COVID-19 exposure models of lacking socioeconomic and territorial vulnerability or including communities and individuals as active agents in response efforts. This research outlines the differences in vulnerability from social and spatial factors, considering the direct and indirect impacts of the pandemic and its value is twofold: It provides geographic science with an integrated authoritative, open and volunteered information toolbox It also empowers society for decision-making on the fight against present and future pandemics, considering spatial features and behavior in the Global South.</p>
